Hola companeros de lucha:
I'm trying to give a kinda summary after Isaac's visit and
what we have achieved and sketch some future plans:

1) We have fixed were the Sigma^- appears in a BHF calc, 
   0.37 fm^-3. It does not (in my opinion) make any sense
   to fix the Lambda as well the way Baldo, Burgio and Schulze did,
   since the Lambda self-energy will be influenced by the fact
   that the Sigma^-1 now has a finite k_F. We may learn equally much
   as from doing an ideal gas.

2) We have run up to densities 1.0 fm^-3 for K-F =0 for all
   hyperons and with different proton fractions. This was done
   in order to fix beta-stable pn matter and have a point for the 
   hyperon fractions as well. The pn energy of beta-stable matter
   compares with what other interactions give. Angels trick with 
   the convergence problem saved the day.

3) We are running (actually the job is still in a queue) for denisties
   0.4 to 0.8 with different proton, Sigma- and Lambda fractions
   in order to do beta-stable matter up to these densities.
   Most likely, since it is a time consuming job) we will have 
   an answer at the end of next week. 

4) Thereafter we will make similar runs for densities up to 1.0, or higher.

With these results we will then have the real and first microscopic calc
of beta-stable matter with hyperons. 

I have the following proposal for what to do with these calcs:

a) we make a letter (probably PRL) where we show the structure of 
beta-stable matter, give pairing gaps and do calcs of neutron star
properties. (i'll prepare this stuff as soon as we've done the 
beta-stable matter analysis)
   
b) we write a longer paper which includes all the gory details
of the beta-stable matter calc, hyperonic and nucleonic superfluidity
and other neutron star properties and other things we'd like to show.

c) we attempt another letter which just addresses the cooling rates
due to hyperons, i.e. we calc the electroweak direct URCA processes.
Input are obviously the effective masses for beta-stable matter.

d) to the finite nuclei stuff: 
We could now do a calc of the self-energy (and effective interactions as well)
for nuclei with say two Lambdas.
We could then do the following for the nuclear matter g-matrix
because the problem witht he old recipe was that we used a
g-matrix with a given k_f for nucleons. 
Since we do not know what the k_f for the lambdas and sigmas shoudl be like,
(we could obviously calc one and play around, however the number of variables
are then too mnay)
we could calc a starting g-mat for the self-energy programme 
with no pauli operator, and then use the methods which i've been using
in order to calc a g-mat for finite nuclei, or use this g-mat as
a starting point in the same was as earlier.

e) what about the delta self-energy? any feeling for that?
valcarce and paco fernandez have after all an interaction for the 
delta-N sector......

Bueno, basta con l'entropia, el seminar del Isaac es a le 14.15.
Despues, Isaac va en vacaciones.......

Un abrazo i buen cap semana
Martino

