From prl@aps.org Mon Aug  9 19:38:02 1999
Return-Path: <prl@aps.org>
Delivery-Date: Mon, 9 Aug 1999 19:38:02 +0200
Received: from pat.uio.no (actually pat.uio.no [129.240.130.16]) by pat.uio.no with SMTP (PP); Mon, 9 Aug 1999 19:37:44 +0200
Received: from hq.aps.org ([149.28.112.5]) by pat.uio.no with esmtp (Exim 2.12 #6) id 11DtMk-0001YR-00 for m.h.jensen@fys.uio.no;
          Mon, 9 Aug 1999 19:37:43 +0200
Received: from seq2.aps.org (seq2.aps.org [149.28.2.17]) by hq.aps.org (8.8.5/8.8.5) with ESMTP id NAA03918 
          for <m.h.jensen@fys.uio.no>; Mon, 9 Aug 1999 13:08:11 -0400 (EDT)
Received: (from prl@localhost) by seq2.aps.org (8.8.5/8.8.5) id NAA06123; Mon, 9 Aug 1999 13:36:30 -0400 (EDT)
Date: Mon, 9 Aug 1999 13:36:30 -0400 (EDT)
From: PR/L-email <prl@aps.org>
Message-Id: <199908091736.NAA06123@seq2.aps.org>
To: m.h.jensen@fys.uio.no
Subject: Re: LF7368
Cc: prl@aps.org
Content-Length: 8409


LF7368
Structure of $beta_-stable neutron star matter with hyperons 
Vida$roman n tilde_a,I./Polls,A./Ramos,A./Engvik,L./Hjorth-Jensen,M./





        Dear Dr. Hjorth-Jensen:

              The above manuscript has been reviewed by our
        referee(s).

              On the basis of the resulting report(s), it is our
        judgment that the paper is unsuitable for publication in
        Physical Review Letters. We enclose comments from the
        criticism that led to our decision.

                                   Sincerely yours,

                                   Christopher Wesselborg
                                   Assistant Editor
                                   Physical Review Letters

.PA

Referee A

The authors study beta-stable hadronic matter including hyperons a well
studied topic during the last decades. The authors try to convince the reader that
they have a novel approach compared to previous studies that it should
warrant a  publication in PRL. I have several points which I think argue
strongly against this attitude which I am going to outline in the following.

- There are numerous many-body calculations including hyperons in beta-stable
hadronic matter, even ones including hyperon-hyperon interactions. The authors
are well aware of these works and cite them properly. So what is new? The
authors claim it is the first 'ab initio many-body calculation of hyperon
degrees of freedom for beta-stable neutron star matter'. What it means is that
they use a model which describes the two-body interactions of the
nucleon-nucleon and nucleon-hyperon forces using a recent model of the
Nijmegen group. The model has been published, the methods used are known too.
'Realistic' Hyperon-Nucleon interactions have been studied in [7], so only the
'Realistic' Hyperon-Hyperon interactions have been added to it (which are not
known in principle).
I do not think that this is a major advancement of the subject.

- When the authors write 'realistic' interactions they mean interactions
fitted to scattering data. Is this really the 'realistic' interactions
encountered in such dense matter as a neutron star? Definitely not. The
authors try to give the impression that previous attempts are not
realistic. Actually, the opposite is true. How can one think to describe
neutron star matter if one is not able to get the saturation properties of
nuclear matter correctly? Or describe the properties of nuclei? The Nijmegen
model used  is not able to fulfill these crucial tasks which is known (see
ref. 8). The extrapolation from two-body interactions to interactions at
normal nuclear density fails. How can one then blindly extrapolate to even higher
densities - the result can not be physical.

- I think the authors are aware of
the problematic outlined above (without stating it explicitly in the paper) as
they use a hybrid model
in addition by using a different nucleon-nucleon interaction. They keep the
other interactions though so that the model loses its self consistency (like
the SU(6) symmetry employed by the Nijmegen group). Are they sure they still
can describe hypernuclei in that approach? It does not say it in the text.

- The model of ref. [8] is not checked for consistency with Sigma-atoms, Xi
hypernuclei and double lambda hypernuclei. Before extrapolating wildly, it is
a crucial thing to check that the model is working at normal nuclear density.
This is not obvious. On the contrary, e.g. the nucleon-nucleon interaction fails
this important test. How can one trust then the nucleon-hyperon and the
hyperon-hyperon interactions at normal nuclear density or even at higher density?

- It is strange that there is no significant difference between the various
parameterizations. In ref. [8] the binding energies of the hyperonic bound
states vary by orders of magnitude. It is quite surprising that this does not
show up in the calculations.

- I am missing a critical discussion about the applicability of the BHF
approach at very high density.

- The authors are using the method of ref. [10] for calculating beta-stable
matter. Unfortunately, this method is thermodynamically inconsistent.
All Fermi energies are related to each other by
E(i) = charge(i) * mue + baryonnumber(i) * muB
where the two conserved charges are electrical charge and baryon number.
(Actually, this is basic thermodynamics and does not need to be outlined that detailed in
the paper on page 5). Now, thermodynamics demands that one has to find the
*absolute* minimum of  the thermodynamic potential, i.e. the absolute maximum
of the pressure for given chemical potential. mue is fixed by global charge
neutrality. The hyperon fractions are then automatically given and can *not*
be imposed by hand! It is the other way around, the hyperon fractions (all of
them) are varied until the pressure is maximized. Practically, one uses the
above constraint equation to relate the particle fractions to each other
which is demanded by thermodynamics. I guess that is the reason why the
authors get an unphysical soft EoS: the pressure is not maximized.

- The final EoS is too soft and gives a too low maximum mass. How can one make then
strong statements like 'only Sigma- and Lambdas appear in neutron stars' on
the basis of this (unphysical) EoS?

- Xis should appear as the XiSigma interaction is highly attractive in the
Nijmegen model. Why is the corresponding chemical potential for Xis not
plotted in fig. 4?

- mue changes its sign in fig. 4 (bottom). Then positrons should appear. Did
the authors allow for this possibility? Judging by the figures, they did not.

- QPO only give an upper limit on the neutron star mass, everything else is
model dependent. An innermost stable orbit has not been seen yet
(see paper by F. K. Lamb et al. in Proc. of Hirschegg Conf. on Nuclear Astrophysics,
p. 114, 1998 and other papers by Lamb).

- Many statements given in the last part of the paper are taken from previous
work like hyperons softening the
EoS and maximum mass of neutron stars and consequences for the EoS (page 7).
Statements like 'that other degree of freedom than pure nucleonic ones must
occur ...' is not supported by an actual calculation of the authors.

- page 8: nobody knows the hyperon-hyperon interaction at eight times normal
nuclear density. It can be attractive at rho0 (hypernuclei) and highly
repulsive at 8rho0. In fact, it must be repulsive at large rho to get a stable
EoS (see e.g. ref. [4]).

In summary, the authors present calculations for neutron star matter which is
partly not able to describe nuclear matter or they do not check if the model
is compatible with hypernuclear data. Extrapolation to even higher density can
not be justified on these grounds. Moreover, the method used is
thermodynamically wrong and leads to unphysical results (like the very soft
EoS which is incompatible with neutron star data). The authors are making
statements either based on an EoS which fails to describe neutron star data or
not supported by an actual calculation by the authors.
Therefore, as the work is not scientifically sound, I
have to reject the paper in its present form.

.PA

Referee B

The authors investigate beta-equilibrated neutron star matter
properties including hyperons in a nonrelativistic many body calculation
in the framework of Brueckner Hartree-Fock theory.
\vspace{.2cm}

Recently, such a many body calculation including hyperons for neutron stars
has been done by Baldo, Burgio and Schulze [PRC 58, 3688 (1998)] where
the threshold density for the appearance of the hyperons was determined.
In this letter, the authors performed a many body calculation using
baryon-baryon interaction of Stoks and Rijken in one case and the
nucleon-nucleon interaction of Akmal, Pandharipande and Ravenhall in the
other case. I should say that the calculation in this letter is merely an
extension of the calculation of PRC58, 3688 (1998) to density regimes higher
than the threshold density of hyperons in neutron stars. This work does not
report any substantial advance of the work already existing in the literature
in the field of dense matter relevant to neutron stars.
Moreover, the results are not reliable since a nonrelativstic approach
has been applied to such high densities in the neutron star interior.
\vspace{.2cm}

Therefore, I believe that this manuscript is not suitable for publication
in Physical Review Letters.


