Dear Artur, Herbert, Lars and Ruprecht,

let me try to comment on Ruprechts remarks and if I don't
hear anything from you, I will proceed with a new iteration
of the paper and the calcs, so forget about the present 
draft I sent you.

1) One thing which I realized when reading Ruprechts 
   first paragraph, is that actually the main diff 
   between Nim I and II are in the non-local terms 
   to the central force. This can also be seen in the
   work of the Nim group. So, that means that the argumentation
   I give needs to be changed to both the role of the tensor
   force and the non-local terms to the central force.
   The latter affects the 1s0 channel as well and explains
   the diff between the nim I and nim II in pure neutron matter.
   So, we have two effects playing around and this actually
   adds more weigth to the paper, it is no longer only the
   tensor force which is important. In a way this is new.

   The problem however, is that although we can see the role
   of this non-local term, we do not know it's proper value
   and importance in an NN pot. To state it differently, when
   fitting nim I some strength which was in the local terms 
   of nimII gets redistributed to the non-local terms of nim I.
   And we do not know properly what the relation between local
   and non-local terms should be. To me there is some degree
   of randomness in these nim pots and this leads to my somewhat
   conservative conclusions in the draft.

   Anyway, I think things are clearer now, we have the non-local
   terms to both the central force and the tensor for the 
   Bonn pot and we have the non-local terms to the central
   force in Nim I. I think that will make our discussion better.

2) When I just plotted data up to densities 0.6 fm^-3
   (there is a typo in the conclusion, 0.4 fm^-3 should be 0.6)
   this was again due to my rather conservative attitude, since
   that density corresponds to roughly 350 MeV in lab energy
   for symmetric matter. We have info on tape up to 0.7 fm^-3.
   So, what I propose is the following: I will calc everything
   up to densities of 1 fm^-3 and revise the figs and the text
   accordingly. Moreover, most people in the neutron star business
   plot data for densities above 1 fm^-3, although I do not like it.
   So, if you agree, I'l try to have a new draft for next week.

3) I've also spotted several typos, but perhaps we wait till
   I've made a new version.


   Morten

