Dear Editors,

please find enclosed our reply to the referee for ms 
------
CFR714 
Shell model studies of the proton drip line nucleus $"" sup 106 _Sb 
Engeland,T./Hjorth-Jensen,M./Osnes,E./
------

We cannot agree 
with several of the arguments put forward 
by the referee about both the 
theoretical and experimental topics discussed by us in the ms.
The discussion by the referee about the agreement with 
experiment misses the point totally and shows, in our
opinion, a lack of knowledge concerning state of the 
art shell model calculations and applications 
of effective interactions. Especially we would like to point to
the concept of effective charges, where we feel that the 
referee does not fully understand what an effective charge
actually is.

Finally, we will insist on this paper being considered
as a rapid communication. The reason being that
our results follow up recent experiments on the nucleus
addressed. In addition, our results are far better than the
theoretical ones which accompany the experimental
paper, and show that the methods we have applied can be
used to describe systems where one has
weakly bound particles. 

All these points are discussed in our answer to the referee.
We feel however, in case of insistince, that a new referee
may be more appropriate.
In this case we would like to propose Prof. Hubert Grawe at the GSI,
Darmstadt, Germany. He was one of the co-authors of the experimental paper
which we address.

Yours sincerely,
Morten Hjorth-Jensen, on behalf of all auhtors 


******   answer to the referee


We thank the referee for his/her comments about our manuscript
on Sb 106.  We have made some revisions to our paper,
but in general 
we disagree strongly with several of the conclusions raised 
by the referee and argue that our ms indeed should be considered as
a rapid communication.  
Our arguments (following the referee's comments are as follows

-------------------- referee text
        1) The model and some results are already published
        in several papers (refs. (8), (9), (10), (15), (16)). In
        this respect, there is no urgent materials in the
        discussions of the model and effective interactions.
        However I may agree with the publication if the article
        contains some remarkable results in comparison with
        experiments. Unfortunately it is not the case in this
        article. Calculated results of energy spectra of
        $^{106}$Sb are model space dependent and have not so much
        predicting power. 
-------------------
answer to 1) :  
        The reason why we gave priority to the paper as a rapid
        communication is that it follows up a recent experiment
        in nuclei close to the proton drip line. This is an area
        of great experimental and theoretical interest. Furthermore,
        since these are weakly bound systems, it is not obvious that
        shell model techniques could be applied with the same success
        as in other mass regions. The fact that they do, and that 
        the agreement with the data are rather good, merits in our
        opinion publication as a rapid follow up of the experiment. 
        In addition, contrary to what the referee says, 
        we would actually infer, compared with e.g. the 
        theoretical results reported in Ref. [7] of the ms, that 
        the theoretical results are quite good. The referee
        could e.g., view Fig 2 of that reference. If one considers
        that this is a weakly bound system with a proton close
        to the drip line, then to  obtain an agreement within some few keV,
        is in itself an amazing support to the many-body scheme 
        employed in the manuscript. In addition, this is an odd-odd
        system, with many states under 1 MeV of excitation energy.
        Such systems are  typically more difficult  to describe
        than e.g., even-even ones. 
         

--------------------   referee text
        2) A new part of the study is the calculations of
        effective charges based on perturbative many-body methods.
        The authors discuss their results in comparison with
        previous theoretical studies and also with data of
        B(E2;4$^+ \rightarrow$ 2$^+ $ ) in $^{106}$Sb . They found
        that their results are substantially different from the
        previous ones, and also from experimental data. They
        should clarify more about the physics behind these
        differences including other data in A=100 region.
---------------------
answer to 2)  :
First of all, effective charges based on perturbative
many-body methods have not been presented for this mass region,
and as such are of interest themselves.
However, this is not our main point. 

We would first like to stress that THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS AN 
EXPERIMENTAL EFFECTIVE CHARGE. Effective charges are mainly a theoretical
concept and reflect in shell-model calculations the chosen
model space. If a shell-model calculation results in a B(E2) 
value  which differs from the EXPERIMENTAL B(E2) one ( which
does not have anything to do with an effective charge) when 
employing a given effective charge, several THEORETICAL improvements
may be needed. Reasons for  disagreement between theory 
and experiment could be 

a) the chosen model space is not representative, need more degrees
   of freedom in the shell model calc. 
b) the calculational technique for  effective charges 
   needs to be improved, one could e.g., use
   more realistic single-particle wave functions, better renormalization
   techniques etc etc
c) a combination of both a) and b)

 
The point is that when one compares a theoretical calculation of 
B(E2) values with experiment, one can always fix an effective  charge
which yields an agreement with experiment. However, such a result 
will differ from model space to model space, i.e. from theoretical
calculation to theoretical calculation. 
To give an example, in order to reproduce 
the B(E2;6$^+ \rightarrow$ 4$^+ $ ) transition in
Sn 104 when one employs a model space like ours (sdgh11/2), one needs 
effective charges for neutrons of the order of 2 or more in order
to reproduce experiment. However, as shown recently by
Caurier and Nowacki (see ref [25] in the revised version of the ms), 
if one increases the model space to include
single-particle states below Sn 100 as closed shell core, one is able
to reproduce the experimental B(E2) value with effective 
charges close to the theoretically calculated ones in our manuscript, i.e.
between 0.5 and 0.7. 
Thus, the proposed huge effective charge
of 2 or more for that specific transition has its origin in
a bad approximation to the shell model space. Similar cases can be found
in O 18 if one uses just the sd-shell as shell-model space, or 
ca 42 in the case of the fp-shell and so forth.
A disagrement between experimental B(E2) values and theoretical
calculations is normally an indication of neglected degrees
of freedom in the shell model calculation. 

This means that the different values for effective charges which figure
in the literature have to be gauged with the fact that different
model spaces 
have been employed in the THEORETICAL shell model calculation.

The aim of fig 2 was to give a window on possible values
for effective charges based on the experimental values for the 
measured B(E2) transition. The message is that there is no
need for the large effective charges proposed in Ref. [7]
and that the extracted  effective charges do not differ
dramatically from those calculated from a one-body operator.
This also implies that the shell model space adopted
in the present calculation is a reasonable one.
Fig 2 shows that  effective charges can be accomodated within what are
more or less accepted values. 

We have added some statements concerning effective charges
in the revised manuscript.  

--------------------  referee text
        3) They claim that the calculated results show a
        good agreement with experiment. I do not see any good
        agreement neither in energy spectra in Fig.1 nor the
        effective charges.
--------------------
answer : in the light of especially points 1 and  2, we mean that this 
conclusion is not correct. There is for instance no such thing as an 
experimental effective charge. Fig 2 gives a window on possible 
effective charge calculated within a given model space, and these
charges do not deviate dramatically from the one-body ones calculated
used perturbative many-body methods. 







