
Dear Editors,

please find enclosed as a uuencoded file attached below
1)  a  revised version of LT6729 as text file set in Revtex
2) two figures in postscript format.

Together with the file there is a also an answer to
the referees.

Yours sincerely

The authors,
Teemu Siiskonen, Jouni Suhonen and Morten Hjorth-Jensen

*******  Answer to referees (both A and B)

We thank the referees for several useful comments on our manuscript,
and for thereby allowing us to spot an error in our previous calculation.
The new manuscript has been revised accordingly. The changes and our
answers to the various comments are listed below.

First we would however like to discuss a possible resolution of the discrepancy
between the so-called bare results obtained with the USD and the CD-Bonn interaction
in the previous manuscript. This was pointed out by both referees
(Ref A points 1-2 and Ref B point 2) and clearly created a confusion in
the interpretation of the data.
As pointed out by Ref A in his/her point 1, the use of  a microscopic
interaction like the CD-Bonn clearly gives inadequate results for the
spectroscopy of nuclei like 28 Si. To be more precise, an effective
interaction which starts from whatever realistic NN interactions
(which fit the scattering data)
and is derived from say a G-matrix approach with additional terms like
core-polarization diagrams, typically fails in certain aspects like the
structure of Si 28, or in reproducing the shell closure
in Ca 48, or Ni 68, or in reproducing the binding energy of the tin isotopes.
The state of the art effective interactions, of which the one used here is
an example, may as an example 
a) result in good spectroscopy but fail in reproducing
the binding energy for say a series of isotopes, or 
b) one may reproduce
the binding energy but fail in the spectroscopy. An example of the latter
is given in Ref. [21] of the manuscript, see sect 6 and the discussion of the Ca
isotopes. There, the binding energies are in reasonable agreement
with experiment. However, the 0+-2+ spacing in Ca 48 is more than 2.5 MeV
away from the experimental value. Similarly, the spectra of 47 and 49 Ca
agree also poorly with experiment. This happens with all kinds of effective
interactions derived  within the present many-body scheme, from the
Kuo-Brown interaction dating back to 1968 to the presently used. It clearly
poses a major problem to many-body approaches to finite nuclei.
Similar behaviors are also obtained in the large scale monte-carlo calculations
of properties of light nuclei ( A less or equal 7) by Vijay Pandharipande
and co-workers.

Possible cures do however exist. The one we have employed here, is
based on a decomposition of the effective interaction in terms of
a multipole expansion. This method has been advocated by Zuker and
co-workers (see refs 24 and 25 of the revised ms). The so-called
monopole part which arises from this multipole expansion
can be rewritten (with a two-body interaction) in terms of a global
term, a one-body term and a two-body term. All these terms are proportional
to the energy centroids of a given configuration. Recently Duflo and
Zuker (ref 25 in the ms) proposed a way to cure the one-body part
of the monopole term through a fit to the available single-particle
energies in all known A pluss minus 1 nuclei. The challenge is obviously
to be able to reinterprete these corrections in terms of a many-body
approach.

The recipe applied here then consists in replacing our energy centroids from the
CD-bonn and Nijemegen I interactions (i.e. the configuration dependent
energy centroids) with those obtained by Zuker and Duflo using the
empirically determined energy centroids.
This recipe forms the basis of Zuker and co-workers succesfull
modification of the kuo-brown interaction for the fp shell, the so-called
KB3 interaction.
We have also applied this recipe to our effective interactions
for the fp shell and found excellent spectroscopy.

With this recipe we have recalculated the structure of Si 28 and Al 28 
and capture rates with
a modified CD-Bonn potential (and Nijmegen I as well). 
This accounts for one of the changes
in the manuscript.
The disturbing discrepancies between the bare results for the USD and CD-Bonn
interactions, have now disappeared, and both calculations
with unrenormalized transition operators yield similar results,
in agreement with previous shell model calculations.
And the spectroscopy for both 28 Si and Al for the Cd-Bonn and
Nijemegen interactions are in a fairly good agreement with the data.
Thus, hopefully, the discrepancy raised by Ref A in
point 1 and Ref B in point 2 has now been resolved.
The GT-distribution and spectrum for the Cd-bonn and Nijmegen interactions
agree fairly well with the data.

The next important change in the revised manuscript concerns
the size of the correction to the transition
operators themselves.

There Ref A noted in his/her points 3-5 that the size of the renormalized
matrix elements should in general (for the isovector part) be smaller,
and especially the [101] matrix, which is similar to the GT operator,
should be reduced by some 20 %.
This led us to reaximine the effective operator and indeed an error was discovered.
Now the renormalization leads to a quenching of the order of 10-30 % in general, and our
new GT results agree with those of other workers.
The new results for the various matrix elements are now listed
in the revised Fig 1 and should conform better with what is expected
(points 4-5 of Ref A).

Thus, the modification of the effective interaction according to the
prescription of Zuker and co-workers and the correction of the
error in connection with the effective operator, should partially
answer the criticism raised by Ref A in his/her points 1-5 and Ref
B in point 2.

Further changes and/or replies to the referees are

REF. A:
-------
point 6) as far as we are aware of, there is seemingly no expt. angular correlation
	 data for 23Na
point 7) The FPA approximation is not employed in our work
point 8) We have shortened the introduction

REF. B.
-------

Point 1) we have added a table in order to, hopefully, enhance the
         readability of the ms.
point 2) We have skipped a presentantion of the Nijemegen I data, since
         they are very close to those from the CD-bonn interaction. That means
         that new interactions will not change the picture dramatically.
point 3) We have used the bare value in order to avoid double counting, see also
         the new ms for further discussion.
point 4) We have removed the phrase about wave function renormalizations.

We would also like to address the discussion of the x-value compared
with the fact that the effective matrix elements get quenched by only 10-30 %,
while the effect on x is to bring it closer to the experimental region.
(this point is also a partial reply to the comments raised by Ref A
in points 2-3). The value of x is also reduced by the same amount, roughly
20-30 % (see the enclosed figure). The reduction can be explained as follows:
If M(2) and M(-1) are divided by matrix element [101], we get only ratios of
the matrix elements and a constant. All the ratios are quenched by the same
amount, roughly 30 %. Thus the effect of the renormalization is to divide the
constants in front of [101]'s by 0.7. As we have smaller constant in numerator,
we get reduction.



We hope that the manuscript is its present form, is more suitable
for PRL.

Yours sincerely,

The authors

****************  the manuscript as uunecoded file



