Dear Editors,

please find enclosed as a uuencoded file attached below
1)  a  revised version of LT6729 as text file set in Revtex
2) two figures in postscript format.

Together with the file there is a also an answer to
the referees.

Yours sincerely 

The authors,
Teemu Siiskonen, Jouni Suhonen and Morten Hjorth-Jensen


*******  Answer to referees (both A and B)

We thank the referees for several useful comments on our manuscript,
and for thereby allowing us to spot an error in our previous calculation.
The revised manuscript has been revised accordingly. The changes and our
answers to the various comments are listed below.

First we would however like to discuss a possible resolution of the discrepancy
between the so-called bare results obtained with the USD and the CD-Bonn interaction
in the previous manuscript. This was pointed out by both referees
(Ref A point 1-2 and Ref B point 2) and clearly created a confusion in 
the interpretation of the data.
As pointed out by Ref A in his/her points 1, the use of  a microscopic 
interaction like the CD-Bonn clearly gives inadequate results for the 
spectroscopy of nuclei like 28 Si. To be more precise, an effective
interaction which starts from whatever realistic NN interactions 
(which fit the scattering data)
and is derived from say a G-matrix approach with additional terms like
core-polarization diagrams, typically fails in certain aspects like the 
structure of Si 28, or in reproducing the shell closure
in Ca 48, or Ni 68, or in reproducing the binding energy of the tin isotopes.
The state of the art effective interactions, of which the one used here is 
an example, may give yield good spectroscopy and fail in reproducing
the binding energy for say a series of isotopes, or they may reproduce
the binding energy and fail in the spectroscopy. An example of the latter
is given in [21] of the manuscript, see sect 6 and the discussion of the Ca
isotopes. There, the binding energies are in reasonable agreement
with experiment, whereas the 0+-2+ spacing in Ca 48 is more than 2.5 MeV 
away from the experimental value. Similarly, the spectra of 47 and 49 Ca 
agree also poorly with experiment. This happens with all kinds of effective
interactions derived  within the present many-body scheme, from the
Kuo-Brown to the presently used.

Possible cures do however exist. The one we have employed here, is 
based on a decomposition of the effective interaction in terms of 
a multipole expansion. This method has been advocated by Zuker and
co-workers (see refs 24 and 25 of the revised ms). The so-called
monopole part which arises from this multipole expansion 
can be rewritten (with a two-body interaction) in terms of a global
term, a one-body term and a two-body term. All these terms are proportional
to the energy centroids of a given configuration. Recently Duflo and
Zuker (ref 25 in the ms) proposed a way to cure the one-body part 
of the monopole term through a fit to the available single-particle
energies in all known A pluss minus 1 nuclei. 

The recipe then consists in replacing our energy centroids from the 
CD-bonn and Nijemegen I interactions (i.e. the configuration dependent
energy centroids) with those obtained by Zuker and Duflo using the 
empirical determined energy centroids.
This recipe forms the basis of Zuker and co-workers succesfull
modification of the kuo-brown interaction for the fp shell, the so-called
KB3 interaction. 
We have also applied this recipe to our effective interactions
for the fp shell and found excellent spectroscopy.

With this recipe we have recalculated the capture rates with
a modified CD-Bonn potential. This accounts for one of the changes
in the manuscript. 
The disturbing discrepancies between the bare results for the USD and CD-Bonn
interactions, have now disappeared, and both calculations
with unrenormalized transition operators yield similar results,
and in agreement with previous shell model calculations. 
And the spectroscopy for both 28 Si and Al for the Cd-Bonn and
Nijemegen interactions are fairly good agreement with the data.
Thus, hopefully, the discrepancy raised by Ref A in
point 1 and Ref B in point 2 has now been resolved.
The GT-distribution and spectrum for the Cd-bonn and Nijmegen interactions
agree fairly well with the data.

The next important change in the revised manuscript concerns 
the size of the correction to the transition
operators themselves. 
 
There Ref A noted in his/her points 3-5 that the size of the renormalized
matrix elements should in general (for the isovector part) be smaller,
and especially the [101] matrix, which is similar to the GT operator,
should be reduced by some 20 %. 
This led us to reaximine the effective operator and indeed an error was discovered.
Now the renormalization leads to a quenching of the order of 10-30 % in general, and our
new GT results agree with those of other workers.
The new results for the various matrix elements are now listed
in the revised Fig 1 and should conform better with what is expected
(points 4-5 of Ref A).


Thus, the modification of the effective interaction according to the
prescription of Zuker and co-workers and the correction of the 
error in connection with the effective operator, should partially
answer the criticism raised by Ref A in his/her points 1-5 and Ref 
B in point 2. 


Further changes and/or replies to the referees are

REF. A:
-------
point 6) as far as we are aware of, there is seemingly no expt. data for 23Na
point 7) The FPA approximation is not employed in our work
point 8) We have shortened the introduction


REF. B.
-------

Point 1) we have added a table in order to, hopefully, enhance the 
         readability of the ms.
point 2) We have skipped a presentantion of the Nijemegen I data, since
         they are very close to those from the CD-bonn interaction. That means
         that new interactions will not change the picture dramatically.
point 3) We have used the bare value in order to avoid double counting, see also
         the new ms for further discussion.
point 4) We have removed the phrase about wave function renormalizations.



Finally, we would like to address the discussion of the x-value compared
to the fact that the effective matrix elements get quenched by only 10-30 %,
while the effect on x is to bring it closer to the experimental region.
(this point is also a partial reply to the comments raised by Ref A
in points 2-3)


------->  Teeme, can you say something here....???????

like

3) Corrections 30% (average). No cancellations, numerical coefficient in the front of [101] important. One sees that, if one
takes [101] as a common factor. All the ratios of rme are decreased by the same amount. Thus we can take this factor 0.7 to
the front and divide the coefficient in front of [101] by 0.7. We have an expression of the form (a+(small)*b)/(d+(larger)*g),
where b\approx g are the factors in front of [101]. When using the renormalization, we must divide b and g by 0.7. That gives
reduction in x.





We hope that the manuscript is its present form, is more suitable
for PRL.

Yours sincerely,

The authors






****************  the manuscript as uunecoded file